In this video we're gonna make our fireball look more like a viable.
There it is.
So let's jump in and make some fireballs.
The first thing I wanna do is go to the asset store and grab some particles and once again I'm using
the assets from our good friends at Sinti.
They've made a simple F X cartoon particles.
You can search for simple F X click on that that will take you to a very cool very blocky voxel looking
particle system which is the style I'm going for in my game you might want something different but this
is one I'll be using import that you have to download at first if you haven't already I've already downloaded
it import that into your project should be pretty quick and like I say if you want to go for different
style absolutely we don't need a lot of particles for this exercise just something that can look fire
bullish.
Now that has landed inside our assets I'm going to drag that just underneath asset pack so it's in the
same spot that our other assets are.
Now we need to find out projectile double click on the fireball projectile at the moment it looks like
an arrow which is not what we want.
We want to grab the arrow and delete it and the trail and delete that as well.
I'm gonna be doing two parts to this projectile one would be the fireball head and the other part will
be the fireball trail and each of these offer us some ways of learning different things about the particle
system.
I'm going to assume that you've seen Unity's particle system before.
If you haven't you might want to check out one of our introductory courses the unity to D or Unity 3D
course but if you haven't seen anything at all it's cool you can follow along with what I'm doing here
it should mostly make sense gonna my fireball projectile right click and let's see effects.
Particle system.
I'll rename this particle system to fireball head.
Okay now we're going to do a couple of things you can see it starts off with our just standard default
white blobs just blobs is that they are white ball things firing into the wherever.
I'm going to change a couple of things first of all what I wanna do is just have one single particle
that spins around this will with a new concept rather than just having this emitter with a whole bunch
of particles making this kind of wave of things going on you're going to have one particle so click
on emission right.
Over time we'll make that zero and under bursts click the plus we have a count of 1 so a burst when
there's one thing that comes out and this There Goes The one thing because we've got a duration of five
seconds on our particle system and a lifetime of five seconds every five seconds.
We're going to get a new particle that lasts for five seconds.
We don't want it to be flying through the air so I'm going to find the start speed or is it his start
speed and put that to zero.
Now just sitting right there it's not sitting exactly on our origin point because we have a shape.
I'm just going to turn off the shape so it's going to be right smack bang in the middle.
Now we want it to look a little bit different.
So going down to renderer click on renderer and instead of render mode being billboard I want to change
this to being mesh.
That means we can put in some sort of structure some sort of game mesh in there and the mesh I'm going
to choose will be click on my little selected here I'm going to search for gun and find the S A if X
gun flash that will click on that.
And that brings in that object that's going to kind of be a chunky fireball head I think.
Looks okay.
You can use whatever you want here you could use it a sphere that it could be as simple just putting
in a little orb in there and it would do the job just fine.
If you don't have this asset pack in particular.
Now I need to change the render alignment because at the moment when I turn around I'm not actually
seeing the back of it.
So change your render alignment to local.
Now I can see it from side on I can see that my Z axis forward is that way and I want that my head to
be moving that way.
I'm going to go all the way up to the top and change the rotation to 180 basically to turn it around
the other way.
That's exactly what I wanted.
Back down to renderer again.
Let's give it a slightly nicer look and to do that click on material just the selector again such for
gun flash.
Double click on that.
And now we see we've got this orange kind of thing that suddenly looks like a fireball.
Now we want this to be doing something wanted to be kind of spinning around so I'm going to find rotation
over a lifetime and click on that to select it and then click to open it up and it changes to 500.
So it's kind of spinning around you know doing fireball kind of stuff as it flows to the room like that.
I think that looks pretty cool.
And then what else do we want to do in here.
Let's see simulation space local yet stock color.
This all looks pretty good for now.
Okay.
So we've got a head for our object.
Now we need to put in a trail.
Let's go into our simple effects.
Particles in here find the prefabs look for.
There's going to be what did a flamethrower grab the flamethrower drag it.
So it's a child to the Fireball projectile in his scrawl out a little bit to see what's going on here.
That looks pretty cool right.
That looks kind of like burn fireball ish.
We need to make a couple of tweaks and changes.
So while clicking it on click Play Now we don't want this to be kind of flame throwing out fire.
We want it to be as we move along.
But remember that's when the particles are emitted so I'm gonna change a couple of things here.
This all will change the size and stuff to start lifetime.
I'll make point three some smaller and the start speed.
I'm gonna change down a point one and now instead of having right over time.
But but but but but because then if it goes really fast we get this weird kind of blobby effect if it
goes really slow it looks quite tight and instead of right.
Over time I'm gonna go and find down here.
Let's see emission put right over time to zero and right over distance I'm going to make say 20.
So then it's emitting based upon how far we've travelled.
So if we travel a short distance not much coming out have a long way then lots comes out.
So that will allow us to change the speed of the fireball and still have a nice consistent emission
going on there.
What else do we need.
Shape.
We can leave that as a sphere.
That's fine.
So currently velocity of a lifetime and limit velocity of a lifetime.
I don't believe we need velocity of a lifetime controls velocity of each particle during its lifetime
and to turn that off.
But I'm going to leave the limit velocity over lifetime which controls the velocity limit and damping
of each particle during its lifetime.
So puts a little bit of dampening on it which is another way of saying things aren't going to move faster
than we want them to move.
If these things flying through the air we're not gonna get any we'd kind of behavior with things being
trying to be pushed around too quickly.
So we just leave the limit velocity of a lifetime on color over lifetime leave that on size over a lifetime.
Yet all these things look pretty good rotation rotation speed Great.
Okay now let's have a look at the size of things you've got the fireball ahead.
Yep we've got the flame thrower that looks like it's way too big.
So let's jump on up to the size font size.
Where are you.
It's not size instead of to make it point five.
See how it feels good to click on play read that's that size compared to the Fireball head.
It looks okay and move the fire flamethrower back a little bit so it's kind of starting a little bit
behind the fireball head.
Yeah.
Looking good.
I think and then whereas our volume make sure our volume is aligned properly it needs to be aligned.
I think just a little bit behind the front of the fireball head so just flatten it out a little bit
switch it up a little bit make it a bit wider so we've got a nice good hit volume.
Yeah that looks okay.
And then push it back.
There we go.
Okay now let's jump into the game and see how this actually works see if it works.
The player should have that all ready to go.
Should have been equipped already or run over pick up our flower thing shoot this guy.
Look at that fly through the air.
Okay.
That's pretty cool.
Little bit of tweaking we need to do.
But as I'm going to do my tweaking I'm going to give you a challenge which is to customize your fireball
you don't have to make it exactly the way I have.
Make a fireball make it look cool and then please share it.
A screenshot or a video.
I'm going to do a little bit more tweaking of mine so you can see what I do but please customize yours
make it yourself make an ice bowl it doesn't have to be a fireball make it a lot more red make the trail
longer add some smoke to it there's smoke in the Sinti pack so put your own flair to it and make it
look really rad so jump in take on that challenge I'm gonna finish my off and I will show you my final
values just very briefly when I'm done I've got the fireball here I made a tiny bit smaller two point
seven I sped up its rotation put it to 700 the flame thrower itself I didn't do a lot of start lifetime
point for start speed point two and start size point four okay and then all the other values should
be as they were before.
So there it is there's our flamethrower free projectile fireball thing that's the word I'm off the fireball
there's still a little bit of polish to make this moment really sing but pretty happy with this so great
work and I'll see you in the next video.